README.md, before:

# Prompt Forge

Prompt Forge is an open-source tool designed for researchers, penetration testers, and ethical hackers to iteratively modify, construct, and evolve prompt injection attacks. It leverages the structured techniques and taxonomies from the Arc PI Taxonomy to facilitate the development and testing of adversarial prompts against AI systems.

**⚠️ Early Development**: This project is currently in its early stages. The core infrastructure is in place, but the interactive features described below are not yet implemented.

## Features (Planned)

- **Interactive Prompt Builder**: Step-by-step construction of prompt injection attacks using categorized techniques (intents, methods, evasions).
- **Taxonomy Integration**: Built on the Arc PI Taxonomy for comprehensive coverage of attack vectors.
- **Iterative Evolution**: Tools to refine and mutate prompts based on feedback and testing results.
- **Ethical Use Only**: Intended solely for security research and defensive purposes.

## Project Architecture

Prompt-Forge runs entirely in the browser for security and portability. The architecture is modular:

- **UI Layer**: Vanilla web interface built with TypeScript, HTML, and CSS using Vite for development tooling. Handles user interactions and renders the application.
- **Application Logic Layer**: Core functionality implemented in JavaScript using SQLite WASM for database operations.
- **Data Layer**: SQLite database with Origin Private File System (OPFS) for persistent local storage in the browser.

This design ensures all logic runs client-side with no server dependencies.

## Development Status

The project currently has:
- ✅ Basic Vite + TypeScript setup with TailwindCSS styling
- ✅ SQLite WASM integration with OPFS for local storage
- ✅ Terminal-themed UI foundation
- 🚧 Interactive prompt building interface (planned)
- 🚧 Taxonomy integration features (planned)
- 🚧 Attack simulation tools (planned)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/applyinnovations/prompt-forge.git
   cd prompt-forge
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

    The application will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`.

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start the development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview the production build locally

## Usage

- Run `npm run dev` to start the development server.
- Currently displays a basic loading screen that initializes the SQLite WASM database.
- All data is stored locally in the browser using SQLite with OPFS for persistence.
- Future versions will include the interactive prompt builder, taxonomy viewer, and attack simulator.

## Attribution

This content/methodology is based on the [Arc PI Taxonomy](https://github.com/Arcanum-Sec/arc_pi_taxonomy/) created by Jason Haddix of [Arcanum Information Security](https://arcanum-sec.com/).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

added sqlite migrations and seed file

README.md, after:

# Prompt Forge

Prompt Forge is an open-source tool designed for researchers, penetration testers, and ethical hackers to iteratively modify, construct, and evolve prompt injection attacks. It leverages the structured techniques and taxonomies from the Arc PI Taxonomy to facilitate the development and testing of adversarial prompts against AI systems.

**⚠️ Early Development**: This project is currently in its early stages. The core infrastructure is in place, but the interactive features described below are not yet implemented.

## Features (Planned)

- **Interactive Prompt Builder**: Step-by-step construction of prompt injection attacks using categorized techniques (intents, methods, evasions).
- **Taxonomy Integration**: Built on the Arc PI Taxonomy for comprehensive coverage of attack vectors.
- **Iterative Evolution**: Tools to refine and mutate prompts based on feedback and testing results.
- **Ethical Use Only**: Intended solely for security research and defensive purposes.

## Project Architecture

Prompt-Forge runs entirely in the browser for security and portability. The architecture is modular:

- **UI Layer**: Vanilla web interface built with TypeScript, HTML, and CSS using Vite for development tooling. Handles user interactions and renders the application.
- **Application Logic Layer**: Core functionality implemented in JavaScript using SQLite WASM for database operations.
- **Data Layer**: SQLite database with Origin Private File System (OPFS) for persistent local storage in the browser.

This design ensures all logic runs client-side with no server dependencies.

## Development Status

The project currently has:
- ✅ Basic Vite + TypeScript setup with TailwindCSS styling
- ✅ SQLite WASM integration with OPFS for local storage
- ✅ Terminal-themed UI foundation
- ✅ Database migrations system for schema and data updates
- 🚧 Interactive prompt building interface (planned)
- 🚧 Taxonomy integration features (planned)
- 🚧 Attack simulation tools (planned)

## Database Migrations

Prompt Forge uses a migration system to manage database schema and data changes. Migrations are SQL files in the `migrations/` directory, executed in alphabetical order on app startup.

### Writing a Migration

1. Create a new SQL file in `migrations/` with timestamp naming: `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_description.sql`
2. Write valid SQLite SQL statements (CREATE, ALTER, INSERT, etc.)
3. Do not include `BEGIN TRANSACTION;` or `COMMIT;` - the system handles transactions
4. Test the migration by running `npm run build` and loading the app

Example migration file (`20251110_014400_init.sql`):
```sql
-- Create tables
CREATE TABLE methodologies (...);
-- Add indexes
CREATE INDEX ...;
```

### Syncing Migration Index

After adding or removing migration files, update the index:

```bash
npm run sync-migrations-index
```

This updates `migrations/index.json` with the sorted list of migration files.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/applyinnovations/prompt-forge.git
   cd prompt-forge
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

    The application will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`.

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start the development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview the production build locally

## Usage

- Run `npm run dev` to start the development server.
- Currently displays a basic loading screen that initializes the SQLite WASM database.
- All data is stored locally in the browser using SQLite with OPFS for persistence.
- Future versions will include the interactive prompt builder, taxonomy viewer, and attack simulator.

## Attribution

This content/methodology is based on the [Arc PI Taxonomy](https://github.com/Arcanum-Sec/arc_pi_taxonomy/) created by Jason Haddix of [Arcanum Information Security](https://arcanum-sec.com/).

## License

MIT
